Jesus called them serpents, offspring of vipers.
Who is he talking about?
The Pharisees.
And who were they?
A prominent Jewish religious sect in the first century.
Why was Jesus so critical of them?
Because even though those religious leaders had knowledge of God
and prided themselves in their strict adherence to the law of Moses,
they did not do as Moses had said to listen to the future Savior
that Jehovah would raise up for His people.
That Savior is Jesus Christ.
But when the Pharisees saw Him miraculously curing the sick,
lame, and blind, even resurrecting the dead,
they did not rejoice over that and glorify God
for what He was performing through Christ.
The Pharisees were faithless, and they refused to believe in
and listen to God's Son.
Instead, they persecuted Jesus' disciples
because they did put faith in the Christ.
So Jesus exposed the Pharisees for what they were
and called them serpents,
because of the deadly spiritual harm that they inflicted on others
who were influenced by them.
In fact, the Pharisees exerted such great influence over the people
that prominent persons were afraid to confess openly their faith in Jesus
for fear of being expelled from their positions in the synagogue
and losing faith in the community.
Can the same sort of fear hold people back today
from serving Jehovah as a disciple of God's Son,
fearing the rejection or ridicule they might have to endure
from neighbors, friends, or family?
If it is, how can you imitate Jesus' disciples?
They not only knew about God, but they trusted in Him
as their reliable father and friend.
As proof of that, they went right onto the temple grounds
and Jerusalem in full view of everyone
and gave a bold witness about God's Son.
They were powerful by their faith.
When the Jewish High Court, many members of which were Pharisees
heard about this, they were furious.
They ordered the disciples to stop teaching about Jesus.
What did they do?
Coward and fear? No.
We can read what happened at Acts 5, verse 29.
That's Acts 5, verse 29.
It reports,
In answer, Peter and the other apostles said,
we must obey God as ruler rather than men.
Jesus' disciples did not allow the religious leaders pressure
and threats to deter them.
They knew their priorities and the situations would arise
when a Christian cannot obey both men and Jehovah God.
You see, human rulers forfeit their right to our obedience
when they demand what Almighty God prohibits,
or, as in this case, when they prohibit what God requires of us.
Even if they ban our preaching work,
we cannot stop carrying out our God-given assignment
to preach the good news.
So at that very moment,
the apostles said,
a precedent for all true Christians throughout the ages
to obey God as ruler first.
The disciples' faith made them real friends of Jehovah.
And as a result, today they are alive and well
in heaven with Jesus to serve with Him as kings and priests.
And what of those faithless Pharisees
and their coveted prominence?
Jesus told them to their face what fate lay ahead of them.
As recorded at Matthew, chapter 23, verse 33,
Matthew 23, verse 33.
He told them,
serpents, offspring of vipers,
how will you flee from the judgment of Gohanna?
Now, the judgment of Gohanna meant that if they did not change,
they would be everlastingly destroyed.
If we are going to imitate the disciples' faith,
we must do as Jesus urged His followers.
See what He said at Matthew, chapter 6,
and verse 33,
Matthew 6, 33.
Keep on then seeking first the kingdom and His righteousness
and all these other things will be added to you.
So Jesus' disciples must always make the kingdom their first concern in life.
If we do that, then as Jesus promised,
Jehovah will see to it that we have the material
and spiritual necessities of life.
Now, seeking the kingdom first in our life
includes preaching the good news of the kingdom
to as many people as we can.
As with Jesus' disciples,
it requires courage and boldness to preach
when neighbors, friends, or family opposes.
But we do not need to fear them
or any other religious enemies,
because Jesus taught His disciples how to preach boldly,
but discreetly.
You can see this at Matthew chapter 10 and verse 16.
Matthew 10, 16.
He said, look, I am sending you out as sheep among wolves,
so prove yourselves cautious as serpents,
and yet innocent as does.
It seems that most literal snakes
would rather flee than attack.
So to be cautious here means to be prudent, sensible, shrewd.
Now, the dove is known as the sheep of the bird world,
because of its gentle appearance and disposition.
So to be innocent means being blameless,
genuine with pure motives.
Jesus' point was that when his sheep-like disciples face persecution,
they need to combine the characteristics of being cautious
and innocent to avoid possible dangers
as they carry out their preaching work.
For example, suppose colleagues at work, schoolmates,
or even members of your own family
who are most caustic remarks about your beliefs
as a witness of Jehovah.
Instead of responding in kind by being equally sarcastic
about their faith, show them that their comments have no effect
on your peace and your pleasant demeanor.
That's being prudent and blameless, cautious, yet innocent.
We all need to keep imitating the faith of Jesus' disciples.
Well, what have we learned from this symposium?
Two things. First, we must reject the course of faithless ones,
like Cain, Lamek, Noah's neighbors, Pharaoh, and the Pharisees.
Second, we need to imitate Jehovah's faithful servants,
like Abel, Enek, Noah, Moses, and Jesus' disciples.
If we do, then we can enjoy living forever as a friend of Jehovah.